# Hello World

The internet exists solely between the confined lines of computers and our imagination. It has evolved to become not only an extension of our society but also a new universe in its own right. The need to provide a platform for the sovereign individual in this new realm has become more apparent over the last few years. Bitcoin has shun immense light on the possibilities not only through technical advancements, but also having this simple but powerful idea of a decentralized trustless network, which is incentivized through a native digital asset.

Access to technology has come to define our lives. Its ever-evolving nature helps push society further by providing new capabilities. The true impact and social benefit only emerges through its widespread adoption. To facilitate growth we must have low barriers to entry while preserving safety and fairness.

To support the next generation of applications and increased dependence on online systems for social functions, we must ensure solid foundations. However, we have been building on years of technical debt and architectural shortcomings that we cannot afford to continue with. How does this relate to us? This includes access and preservation of knowledge, low cost communications, and now increasingly digital assets. Over the next few decades, most of individuals’ wealth will be in the form of digital assets and most physical assets will transform into digital representations. This will help in extracting capital from these assets much more efficiently and even enable more opportunities to have shared models rather than whole ownership. This presents the unique opportunity to enable self-sovereignty if we, as a social whole, deem appropriate. Custodianship requires greater responsibility on the individual thus requiring new habits and tools to combat it.    

We have seen in the past few years the rise of blockchains within the world and how it has redefined digital transactions. The importance of this technology has still yet to be fully realized and over the next few years we will see greater adoption. As interest grows around it, the pain points of scalability have risen as well. Centralized distributed consensus systems have become the backbone of internet infrastructure and power the largest applications used by billions of people such as Google and Facebook. Bitcoin, the first decentralized distributed consensus system, is the first realization of a permissionless global network. It solved this open problem in computer science by uniquely using cryptoeconomic notions coupled with moderately hard functions within the ingenious Bitcoin protocol. However, this solution has its caveats in the form of transaction throughput and high economic & environmental cost to security ratio, making it an unsuitable long term solution to build these types of networks. Furthermore, as we expand above earth's atmosphere we are going to need a solution that can be resilient in the universe. We need resource expenditure that is not electricity, and the best alternative medium is storage. There is a large surplus of unused storage that can be utilized more efficiently. Moreover, advancements in *application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC)* for such a network would mean that general storage technology has advanced to everyone's benefit. These types of networks have the potential to become trust mediators for society through the internet. 

As humanity is on a path to become multi planetary we must take into account the reality that we are moving from a national level to a collective level. No longer will we be confined to earth and the geographical boundaries that define sovereign states which through local economic units incentives its own local economies, we are moving into a universal level as humanity. This requires an evolution in our overall understanding of national differences to a belief in our kind.

Computing is an extension of ourselves and over time the lines between our mind and external sources of computation will blur themselves. Quantum computing can be seen as one direction of future computing platforms, but the real future is biocomputing. Utilizing biomaterials and biologically-inspired methods to perform computations will unlock an unimaginable amount of possibilities. As we gain the ability to reprogram cells, it will be the catalyst to longevity.

Bitcoin has lost its soul, it is no longer on the path to fulfill the initial goal Satoshi had envisioned for it. However, it has fulfilled its purpose in introducing such an important idea to the world but I think it is now time to build the operating nervous system we need. Organism is a crypto-economic system that is designed to act as a backbone to a new galactic settlement layer and provide a services layer. It strives to be a resilient and efficient base protocol that others may leverage. The network leverages ‘The Milton System: an economic incentive layer’ and ‘Euka: a commitment agreement protocol’. These will be released soon and added in the about page.

Governance is fundamental and is something that will evolve with the community so it is left for future publications. From a design perspective, creating universally-acceptance is much better because it reduces the burden of governing a controversies. WE must build upon our commonalities to reach new shared ideals. Organism aims to become the nervous system that society can trust, rely and build upon.



Thank you for your time.     

Your most humble servant,

Efe